# MSP_SpheroPilot--Project_Forseen
Project Forseen utilizes the technology of Sphero to work through a maze. The Sphero will then return directions through the maze in colors.
Hackster.io Link to Project Forseen: https://www.hackster.io/MK_Bama/project-forseen-msp-sphero-pilot-program-de827c?ref=user&ref_id=62957&offset=0

Week 1: I received my Sphero 2.0 on Thursday. I have had a few days now to get acquainted with it and I am excited to start working with it! I have downloaded the Sphero 2.0 Win.NET SDK and I will be looking over it and utilizing it as I begin to work on this project. The complexity of this will provide a great challenge for me seeing as I am relatively new to all that computer science and coding have to offer. Nonetheless, I can't wait to see what I can do with this! #ImagineThis

Week 2: The Sphero has proven to be a difficult adversary. I had a lot of issues with beginning to understand and work with it through Visual Studio 2015. The most difficult thing is and will be understanding and utilizing the SDK for Sphero 2.0. I am still working on the logic necessary to go through the maze. It is not so much the actual manner in which I will go through a maze so much as getting it to actually do it and then also remember which direction it went so that it can return directions through that same maze. Because we are developing this as a UWP (Universal Windows Platform) app it will work on any device, which also will make it easier on my end. My next job is to implement the logic for the Sphero and continue to better my understanding in doing so. 

Week 3: Progress has been made. I have begun to have a deeper understanding of the abilities of Sphero and the SDK that comes with it. The most difficult thing has been trying to utilize the Collision control functions. I have to use this so that the Sphero knows when to make a turn in the maze if it hits a wall (Has a Collision event). Still working through this but I think I will be able to get it all done! I have about half of the logic for the Sphero done. It takes time to implement and make sure that it works because of the difficulty with testing. This final week will allow me time to get it done and ensure that it works.

Week 4: I have finished my project! It proved to be very difficult and was time consuming. The hardest thing, after figuring out how to properly use the event collision handler, was to get it to turn colors respective to each direction it was going. Since I wanted to summarize the directions at the end, and not in real time, I had to store the directions in a char array as R,L,F(Forward),B(Backwards) and then based on what it was it spit back either Red,Green, Blue, or Yellow. This was a fun project and I am so glad that I was able to finish it! #ImagineThis
